Here are two resources or few resources
I really like when it comes to
thinking about software
engineering as a whole.
Clean Code by Robert C Martin, is probably
one of my all-time favorite books.
Refactoring by Martin Fowler,
very, very good.
So Kent Beck wrote the foreword, so
this is where that make it work.
Make it fast or make it right,
make it fast came from and
then is an Angular developer,
then using the style guide.
So with that said,
does anybody have any questions and
I sure hope you do about
the things that I've just said.
So this is going to serve
as the foundation for
everything that we do today, in code.
So, if you have a question,
in your room hop up, say it don't be shy,
or if somebody in the chats have it,
Mark, feel free to service that for
me, I would love to talk about
what I just talked about.
So the question is if you have a container
and the presentation component
the presentation component is
the very very thin component and
your container component will have logic.
And, that is a very astute observation.
And I would say that presentation
components are razor thin and
a lot of times they're strictly bindings.
And so if I have like a list component
where I'm just feeding in a collection of
something, and we'll see this is
that it's just inputs, outputs.
How do you break or
how do you test something with no logic?
Like it's really hard to do.
Typically you move on to like end
to end testing at that point,
because unit testing by definition,
you have to have units of logic.
Now a container component
is responsible for
pulling in just enough data to satisfy the
presentation components ie the templates,
and capturing user events and
delegating them upwards.
And so in the context of a container
component, it's still very,
very thin but any logic that exists at the
container level component is present or
I would say, it's presentation state
is what I would consider is that,
it's very focused on the state of the
presentation of that specific component.
And so, there's a difference between
like presentation state of like,
do I show this login button or not?
Do I disabled the submit button?
Verses what is the business rule for
submitting this flight.
So I had the opportunity to work
on a flight scheduling app, and
the rules the business logic
around that is incredibly complex.
So, like those kind of rules would
definitely not go into component.
And so very good question.
And the answer is, presentation
components are very very thin,
container components
are just not quite as thin.
But it's just enough to consume the data
for the templates, then capture events and
delegate those back out to a facade,
typically.
>> What is a facade?
>> So, a facade is nothing
more than a service and
this specific facade or
the facade pattern,
what it does is that it sits in
between a consumer and a producer.
And it hides all of the implementation
details of the producer from the consumer.
And so a lot of times I use a facade
is that when I have a component that's
coupled to like a service, that's
making http request, which is a very,
very common pattern, Intel kinda state
management libraries came onto the scene
is that from my witches component,
I would just inject the widget service and
I would pull the widgets in,
and that would be that.
But what I wanna do, is I want
the component itself to be oblivious.
To application state, and
how the data is actually showing up,
the component doesn't need to know that.
And so what a facade does is it sits in
between the component and the rest of
the application and essentially puts up
a facade around what's actually happening.
Some individuals,
I believe, even doorwall,
they recommend keeping all
your components in a lib and
then consuming them back
into your application.
And the question was,
how do I feel about that?
Well, the answer is, it doesn't offend me.
But I think in a lot of cases,
it leads to kinda premature optimization.
And so there is an overhead
by decoupling everything.
And there's just kinda
this threshold work.
Like it doesn't make sense,
or it becomes so
burdensome to have everything broken out,
into tiny, tiny, tiny, tiny,
different components, and then moving
them away into standalone libs.
I've seen it actually create cognitive
overhead, inside the application.
And so, again, coming back to
cohesion is that if you have
a component that will only ever
exist in a single application,
then I believe you should
leave it in that application.
Now, this is my opinion, and
there may be a case for not doing that.
But if I have a very specific component
in an application, I leave it there
because that is kind of functional
cohesion in terms of where it operates.
And so I've seen this pattern,
I work with it, but
I typically try not to optimize
something prematurely until I need it.
Now if I ever needed to move a component
across two applications, absolutely,
put that in a lib.
But, there is a little bit of
an overhead that, I think,
at some point we just have to realize it's
not worth paying that tax, if you will.
So the question is, if you have, and
correct me if I'm wrong, but if you have
an existing app, how do you actually apply
these techniques to reduce complexity?
Is that correct?
So I believe the best apps
in the world are Greenfield.
Like if I just had a magic wand and
I could just wave it around,
I would only ever work on
Greenfield applications.
Unfortunately, that's
not how the world works.
And it's really easy or
it's easier to get your architecture
right when you get to define
it from the ground up.
So in the course of this workshop,
we're gonna start from nothing.
We're gonna build it up it's awesome but
I have inherited some real gems.
And you're sitting there and
you're like, how in the world,
am I supposed to deal with this?
And I think first and foremost,
it's understanding that you can
refactor through promotion.
And so the answer is, little bit,
by little bit, by little bit.
Do you reduce that complexity so
back to the access of evil.
So when we talk about complexity,
more often than not,
that you have hidden state, which makes it
a very hard to test a function, and you
have nested logical and you're violating
the single responsibility principle.
Well you can fix those, by first of
all extracting large functions into
tiny smaller functions with preserving
all of the functionality and
especially if you're writing tests
as you go along to where I've
been on projects where it's look,
we need to break this up.
But we're not gonna break anything
because we've written some tests and
as we start to refactor it,
the tests are going to continue to pass.
So it's refactor through promotion,
extract a method,
if you have hidden state, take that out,
and instead inject that via a parameter.
So this is dependency injection,
which is nothing more than parameters
like you're satisfying a dependency and
essentially decoupling your code
it kind of the local level and
then moving it out into
the proper abstraction level.
Does that make sense?
And, unfortunately for us,
it's not really a magic trick,
in the sense of like
against the axis of evil.
Is the simplest thing to fix and
I see it all the time,
is you just look at code and
you're like this code.
And for me, really,
the litmus test is can I test it?
And can I move it?
And if you can't test it or you can't
move it, then you need to refactor.
And so you start to break it out into
smaller single purpose functions.
Peer immutable functions, and
then you start to promote it into
an abstraction layer that makes sense.
So the question is and I had made
the comment that I do not agree with,
like the kind of the style guides 100%.
I can't think of anything
off the top of my head.
But, I think sometimes maybe
like some naming conventions or
I find it to be overly restrictive.
I would say that most of the time,
that, I do agree with them.
But there are things where this is
a style guide, by nature, it's stylistic.
It's a stylistic preference.
And so like one of the things
that I do that you'll see is if
I have an array of
something in the last item,
I'll just put a comment at the end of
it because it doesn't break the code.
And when I start a new line, like.
You're you can just type it,
you don't have to go back and
put that comma before
you start the next line.
So for me, that's a stylistic preference.
And so somebody could in their style
guide, say don't use a trailing comma.
And I would say, but I'm from Oxford,
and I like the trailing comma, and
I'm going to use it.
And I think as long as you're going
to deviate off of a style guide.
Then make sure that it's
agreed on by your team.
And so I would say your team or
like your team style guide trumps your
organizational style guide, which then
trumps the community style guide.
Because if you've got
together as a team you said,
this is how we wanna do
this particular code.
It just makes sense for us we wanna do it,
then that in terms of specificity
would take over and override that.
So I can't say there's anything egregious
there's just something where it's just
like, that's too much work or doesn't make
sense or I don't see the value in it.
>> As it okay and,
>> But
nothing like there's no I think
fundamental philosophical difference.
A lot of it is, I mean, a style guide by
nature is mostly stylistic preferences.
But I do find them helpful,
because they ensure consistency.
I talked about a lot of very high level
things, a lot of very general things that
you can apply to a lot of
other things besides Angular.
But if this first principles that
when you are disciplined and
you apply them to your code it
just makes everything better.
And it create consistency not
across a single project but
across everything that you do.
So for the rest of the workshop I hope
you can re-enforce those concepts and
we can start to see those in action.